Project Title Here

Company XYZ Analysis 2019
Company XYZ is a mega-supermarket with branches in three states, Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt.
In a bid to understand her performance in the year 2019, three month worth of data spanning from January to March was analyzed.

Project Steps
Step 1 - Loading the Dataset
Data was connected from three csv files on github for analysis, merged and transformed to pandas dataframe for analysis

Step 2 - Data Exploration
The data components and structure was analyzed in other to understand the best approach in pulling insightful data.
Some of this exploration included finding missing values in the dataset, statistical summary (i.e total rows, max amounts at in data points, averages)

Step 3 - Dealing with DateTime Features
Inorder to carry out time series, the date column needed to be converted to datetime so as to analyze datapoints at a specied period of time.

Step 4 - Unique Values in Columns
unique values such as categorical data had to be extracted in order to understand what type of categorical sales, gross income etc was made.
this is helpful in performing groupby

Step 5 - Aggregration with GroupBy
This is performed of items categoriesed and sums, mean,max etc to be extracted. city was used in the case to get total sales, gross income, unit price, quantity.

Insights
Quantities Sold: The average quantity sold is 5.51
The maximum unit price sold is  35,985.6
The biggest income gotten from sale of a single product  is 17,874.0
The average unit price sold is : 20041.9668
The total transactions made : 1000.0
Port Harcourt has the highest sales: 39,804,734.34
Lagos has the highes number of goods sold: 1,859


Future Work

Time trend of Total sales
Month on month analysis
Day on Day analysis
Same period last month analysis

Standout Section

Carried out a Tag Ratings analysis

Carried out Sales performance by status

Carried out Month name for time series

Carried out Sales performance by Month

Carried out Number of transactions by Gender

Executive Summary.

 inorder for company Company XYX to increase her profits, she has to pay attention to the states recording low incomes and low quantities sold.
She has to take advantages of boom prices.
She has to pay attention to the ratings and ensure the average and bad status are kept to the barest minimum.